In this video, what we are going to do is
tackle listing the Owners on the Index
Page so I'm going to click over here and
bring up this task so we are going to
complete task #16 on this page and
we're going to do a couple things in
this. One, we want to get the Owners
control or running returning back Owners
from the OwnerService, just a list of
Owners, and then, we also want to create
the Index Page. Actually, I think we
already created the Index Page.
We just need to add commands for Thymeleaf
to display the elements. So let's go
ahead and implement that now.
I'm going to toggle over here to
IntelliJ. The first thing that we
want to do is on the Owners Controller,
what we need to do is get a handle
on that OwnerService. So I come in
here and do private final OwnerService
like so, you can see that IntelliJ is
giving me a little red arrow there. If I
come in here, I can say Add in a
Constructor Parameter and IntelliJ will
automatically create that for us.
Again, doing Constructor Injection is
the preferred way working with injected
properties. That's really the
best practice, so I'm doing it. I'm
declaring it final so that that object
can never be changed. Spring Framework
will inject it through the
constructor so when this Controller
class gets instantiated, there's only one
way to instantiate it and that is with
an instance of the OwnerService. So now
what we want to do here is we are going
to bring in a Model
like so and by declaring that, Spring MVC
is automatically going to add a Model
when it calls this method to list.
What we want to do here is a model.addAttribute.
We want this
implementation here,
owners, so that will be the name of the
property inside the model. Not right here.
Now what we want to say is
ownerService.findAll like so. That is
going to give us a set that will be able
to iterate over. It's very simple.
When this gets called by Spring MVC,
Spring MVC is going to inject the model
into it, and when it runs, it's going to
add in an attribute called owners which
will be all Owners from the final method
of the OwnerService, and then we're
going to return back the Owners
Index Page. Now, we gotta come over here
to the Index Page. We don't have anything
coming in here, so what we can do is
actually I'm going to pause the video
here while I write out the HTML. I
think that might be a little boring for
you guys to watch so I'm going to pause
the video and be right back.
Celine, that was amazing! That was the
most beautiful performance ever seen
in my life. Thank you so much. Thank you. No,
thank you.
We need to do it again.
Okay. Why? Well, it's too good. Yeah, this is
this is Deadpool 2, not Titanic. All right,
you're like an 11. We need to get you
down to a five five and a half tops, just
phone it in. Listen. This thing only goes
to 11, so beat it Spiderman. God, I should
have asked in sick. Okay, I jumped ahead a
little bit so you didn't have to watch
me fumble through coding all this HTML
because coding HTML one of my favuorite
things to do. That's a little sarcasm
there. What I've done here is I added
in a table element, so we have id, firstName, lastName, our properties.
Just as a recap on our Owner, object
extends out Person. Person has firstName,
lastName and that also extends out BaseEntity. I'll jump over to that and that
has an id property, so our Owner object
basically has firstName, lastName, and
id. Not a very robust object but good
enough for our purposes.
What's going to happen here is the
Model is going to have the element
Owners. Remember here in the OwnerController, we are setting a property
attribute called Owners. That's going
to Map to this property that Thymeleaf
is going to be looking for. We're
going to iterate over it, so we're using the
th:each iterator. That is going to
iterate and that's going to create a
table row for each owner in owners.
For that, we are going to create the
table elements for id, firstName, and
lastName. I'm going to go ahead and
format this. There we go. Not  you.
I ran
the formatter on that. I did an auto
format to adjust the formatting on this.
One other thing up here, you can
see I'm using this thymesVar, this HTML
comment. This tells Thymeleaf slash,
I should say, it tells IntelliJ that
for owner, it is of the type of this
Owner, so I'll give it the full package
name then the model Owner so that's
how IntelliJ knows though. I'm
still getting a little flag there.
We'll see if I made a mistake there now
because I have not run this. I'm trying
to do as much live coding as possible
here. So let's go ahead and actually run
this now. I'll bring that up. Click
down, you can see that's building and
parsing down below. We are starting
up. Again, we are running as Map
implementation. You can see that we are up. Let's
come over here to Chrome. I still had a
List of Owners up here. Let's refresh
that. We can see that we have Fiona
and Michael there, so this is working
properly.
Right now, this is just kind of a
random sort. We're not specifying any
sort in the Map implementation. This
is going to just kind of be how it comes
out of the map for us.
Actually it should stay pretty
consistent once we were started, but it
might change, might not. So just to recap,
what we did there. We modified the OwnerController
to inject the OwnerService.
We're doing Constructor Injection. We
don't need to specifically call out an
Autowired on it, that gets on it
automatically Autowired by Spring
Framework and then we modified the listOwners
to accept a Model attribute.
That object is now getting injected
by Spring MVC. On line 24 there, we are
adding the attribute of owners to that.
That gets returned back to
Thymeleaf so the Model is
returned back to Thymeleaf. It's going to
have an attribute called owners and then
we're telling it to use owners/index in
that template and we modified that
template to have a table element in it
and to display the properties of id,
firstName, lastName.
Right now, we're not doing any
formatting yet so we're just kind of
letting it do its thing. Actually, I'd
get rid of this because this should
never. I don't think we need the null safe
operator there. I could be wrong. But on
second thought, I don't think we actually
need the null safe operator there
because I'm not transversing anything
unless we should never have a null owner
object, so we don't need that null safe
operator. Just a refresh, we'll come
back over here. Refresh that. That is
still up and happening. Let's see here.
We were working on #16, so I'm
going to commit that code. I guess #16
like so.
Let's say that Closes #16 and
we will Commit and Push this.
We can see that's up to close.